# Statement On AI

**Destruction is caused not by the tool, nor the hand that holds it, but by the brain that forgets how the tool came to be** - Ronan Hughes

AI is a powerful tool. I can say with confidence that if I utilized AI to write, edit, or even just proofread this document, it would be would have a meaurably positive impact on its readability and impact. It would flow better, be more concise, use better vocab, have a more professional tone, and take half the time and effort to write. In an abundance of tasks, there are elements where the usage of AI could greatly improve the quality of the final product, while decreasing the time and effort neccesary. Clearly then, AI is a tool everyone should use. But I write this statement today, with my informal tone, my overuse of commas, allowing all my thoughts and ideas to spill out from my brain onto this page. I use only my brain, a dictionary and thesaraus, and the letter keys on my keyboard. I apologize to the reader for having to deal with my messy and unrefined musings, if you have read this far. Perhaps some day someone will be kind enough to proofread and edit this for me. But today, it remains purely mine, purely human. I do have at my disposal, a lexigraphic collection of more knowledge than I may ever know, capable of providing consice ideas and input at a moments notice. But I will not use it, please allow my to explain why.

AI is, as many things are, a tool of convience. Convience isn't bad, finding more efficient and effective ways of doing things is the driving force behind innovation and growth. However, when a tool gets to the point that it no longer requires a knowledgeable user, it has a dangerous side effect. Knowledge is power, achieved through practice, pain, and time. Knowledge is also the purest fuel that drives our brains. At its core, our brain is just a complicated chemical engine that wants dopamine, serotonin, oxytocin, and endorphins. There are countless ways to provide our brain with what it wants, but a few are more fundementally necessary than all the rest. One of those is through the aquisition of knowledge. By using our brains, we can aquire knowledge that exponentially increases our access to those hormones and neurotransmitters. We not only give it short term reward though the joy of accomplishment, but we also provide it with the resources to aquire further knowledge, and accomplish more rewarding tasks. Intrisically intertwined with that process is struggle. Struggle has inherently negative connotations, but I have come to realize it is one of the most important things we do. I could give countless cliché examples of why this is true, but I will instead ask you to think of the most rewarding experience/s you've had in life, and try to convince yourself that it wasn't because of the lessons you learned and the obstacles you overcame that made the experience so meaningful. That, is why we must struggle. 

**"One day, in retrospect, the years of struggle will stike you as the most beautiful" - Sigmund Freud**

It is no secret that improper use of AI is damaging, just as it is clear that AI is a practical and effective tool. AI is fantastic for monotonous, labor intensive tasks. It is also fantastic for planning, brainstorming, or proofreading. It is useful for someone wishing to accomplish tasks in areas where they have little to no experience and do care to learn. It is fantastic at gathering and connecting ideas, providing more in depth and contexually relevant input than anything else can at mind blowing speeds. It is an amazing tool. Think purely about how much time it saves. Think about the annoying process of looking for answers on the interent, having to comb through stores of information and knowledge just to find an unsatsfying answer to a simple question, if you're able to find an answer at all. What about the pain of being stuck on a math problem, knowing that at one point in time you knew exactly how to do it, but now all that really matters now is getting the answer. AI is the solution to those struggles. Well, actually it is the more convient solution. The solution I implore you to find instead is the dedication of time, brain power, and effort. I cannot tell you how much I've learned while looking in the wrong place. How many times those hours spent searching for simple but elusive answers gave solutions to questions I hadn't asked yet. The argument against that is that you have now spent a large amount of time searching instead of working, when using a tool such as AI could find the answer quickly. Our society has become to prioritize results over the quality of the process that produced them. Knowledge is an investment. It is an interconnected, multi-dimensional web that when properly developed, can provide a foundation for achieving almost any task. AI may find answers quickly, but through a laborious pursuit of information we gain exponentially more knowledge. I also believe that reward cannot come without struggle. Our brains can be missleading. They suggust to us that they want the highest amount of reward with the lowest amount of effort. They often forget to provide us with the proper insight and motivation to aquire long term rewards, instead focusing on short and immediate satisfaction. They hide from us the substantially superior prize of overcoming challenges and achieving long term growth. They do this by withholding the desire to struggle, to fail. One of the most dangerous traps a student can fall prey to is the focus on grades versus learning. The damage of this trap is unimaginally worsened by the presence of AI. When a person focuses more on turning an assignment in than actually understanding its content, AI provides the ability to remove the struggle that comes with understanding. This not only means they are not learning, but it has the equally bad, if not worse, effect of removing any sense of accomplishment. AI takes away the only thing that can consistently motivate a person to put effort into a difficult task. That, fundemtally, is more scary to me than the loss of knowledge. A person with no will to live is already dead.

"It is only in our decisions that we are important" - Jean-Paul Sartre

Under the guise of efficiency and learning, we utilize AI to forge a path that will destroy us. The worst part is, it is possible to use AI in a thoroughly benefitial and positive way. It is possible that AI could be used to further the development of our society at astonishing speeds. But it is a dangerous tool. It relies on the will of the user to stay steadfast in the face of deceptive convience. The user must be trusted to understand in full exactly when and where they should stop using the tool in order to struggle and fail. It requires them to choose to go against reason, and pick the more difficult and inconvenient path while they hold the tool to end to their suffering in their hands. That is why I choose to not pick up the tool. It is not from hubris, or to hold the elitist view that I'm better than those who use AI. It is from recognition that I am not strong enough, nor intelligent enough, to choose when and where I must struggle and fail. It is from the fear that if I open the doors to convienance I will get lost in the world that I find, and lose the autonomy that makes my life worth living. I recognize how absurd this can sound. But it is dangerously easy to use AI as a crutch for some of the most fundmental responsibilites of our brain. If we allow the muscles of our brain to degrade, our very existence will decay slowly, so that we will never even realize it was happening.

Withall this in mind, I ask you to forgive me. My writings will not be as polished, consice, or coherent as they could be. My research and progress will be slower than it could be. My formatting will not be as aesthetic, or proper as it could be. But my writings will be my own, written with my words and tone, using the knowledge and time that I put in. This project will be an equal trade of effort to reward, cultivated purely through my struggle and dedication. At no point during this project will I allow any of my thoughts or decisons to be altered or interpeted by AI. I will use the only the resources created from the labor and dedication of others, rather than an artificially constructed amalgamation of their ideas. My choice to do this orgininates from a desire to grow, and the knowledge that the final product will be built on a foundation of growth and achievement. I ask too that all contributors will follow the same philosophy, so that all can hold pride in their work, not because the task was completed, but *they* completed it.

### Disclaimer
In our modern age, it becomes increasingly difficult to avoid the encroachment of AI. Even in the process of writing this statement, AI rears its head. Both the AI overview at the top of a google search, and the GitHub Copilot auto generating commit messages, are examples of AI thinking, searching, and struggling in my place. To account for such influence, it is necessary to be honest. Thus I establish an expectation of explicit descriptions for all individual instances where AI influence occurs.
